# (c) In the event of an autonomous system causing harm or damages, who is responsible?

Vehicle accindents are all too prominent in our modern day world, but as technology continues to progress in the autonomous vehicle industry, the question arises: who takes responsibility in the event that an autonomous vehicle causes harm or damages? Should it be the responsibility of the licensed driver or the manufacturer? How much control did the driver have at the time of the crash? These are just a few of the questions that must be considered when analyzing the liability of harm caused by autonomous systems.

The article [When an autonomous vehicle hits a pedestrian, who is responsible?](https://www.callahan-law.com/articles-and-expert-advice/when-an-autonomous-vehicle-hits-a-pedestrian-who-is-responsible/) discusses the complex details that must be considered in the event an autonomous vehicle strikes a pedestrian by analyzing a recent event where this occured in Arizona. The article describes a lack of regulation to designate responsibility in the event an autonomous vehicle causes damage. Because autonomous vehicles are still in a more infant phase of commercial use, regulations lack guidance for the autonomous vehicle owners and manufacturers as they prefer to "take a 'wait-and-see' approach to civil liability in crashes between self-driving cars and pedestrians" ("[When an autonomous vehicle hits a pedestrian, who is responsible?](https://www.callahan-law.com/articles-and-expert-advice/when-an-autonomous-vehicle-hits-a-pedestrian-who-is-responsible/)"). Because of this, there is a lot of gray area when it comes to assigning responsibility. 

So why haven't law makers taken steps to write in regulations for self-driving cars and harm due to autonomous systems? Well, there are a lot of factors to consider when assigning responsibility for injuries or damage that is caused by an autonomous system: the amount of control the owner has at the time of the accident and determining whether the accident was caused by the operator or the manufacturer just to list a couple. The [Self-driving car liability](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-driving_car_liability) article utilizes a scale to classify the level of autonomy a system has. The level of autonomy of the system heavily influences not only the level of responsibility for the owner versus the manufacturer but the types of issues that may occur with manufacturers and owners attempting to pass the blame off to the latter. For example, if there is a degree of sharing control possible (in the case of a level 3 or 4 system), in what cases would the owner be responsible versus the manufacturer. Another issue to consider, how may the manufacturer attempt to pass the responsiblity off to the owner even though control was passed too late for the owner to successfully avoid the accident?

Determining the responsibility in the event of an autonomous system causing injury or damages is quite a complex problem. There are many factors to consider, like the level of control of the autonomous system and the level of attentiveness required by the operator, before assigning the responsibility to one or the other. Both of the articles raised important point regarding issues that must be resolved when writing regulations for autonomous systems as well as the lack of regulations currently in place for these situations. Autonomous systems are becoming more prominent, and will become more available in the forseeable future, so it is important to consider the conflicts that will be encountered with the owning of autonomous vehicles. 