# (d) What laws may be helpful for regulating or controlling autonomous systems? What drawbacks will this potentially have?

Considering the level of autonomy of the system will be essential to creating any laws to regulate them. The level of control the operator has in compared to the autonomous system will greatly influence the factors that must be considered when writing a law to regulate that system. For example, if a car manufacturer guarantees a vehicle contains fully autonomous driving capabilities and the system causes an accident, the manufacturer should undertake full responsibility of the accident because they guaranteed the vehicle was fully autonomous, implying the user did not need to partake in driving the vehicle in any capacity. This changes, however, if the vehicle manufacturer states the user must be aware to assist in avoiding accidents via swerving, quick stops, etc. This now passes some control over to the operator of the vehicle; therefore, in some instances, the user may be held responsible for the accident as the manufacturer stated that certain elements of control was left to the user.

Determining the level of autonomy of a system means there must be clear guidelines that define the autonomy level. Because the level of autonomy heavily influences the level of responsibility held by the operator, it is important to have the ability to accurately categorize the system based on its autonomy. For example, a Level 5 autonomous system could imply the system requires no human interference or supervision and a Level 1 autonomous system could require full operation by the user. Categorizing systems by their autonomy allows regulators to better fit the laws to specific types of autonomous systems. This would make for more precise regulations of the autonomous systems and could help reduce ambiguity.

The issue with approaching automation regulation by placing bounding boxes on the level of their automation is just that: attempting to outline levels of automation for various systems. There are many different elements of a system that can be automated. Going back to an automated vehicle, you can automate just the cruise control or the cruise control and lane adjustments, or you can automate the entirety of the operation of the vehicle (driving, cruise control, lane changing, etc.). Now consider a surgical robot. The surgeon could control the movement of the arm, or the robot could be automated to perform the surgery entirely on its own. The surgeon could also just observe the arm and intercede (or approve) actions before they are executed. The components of the automated system change from system to system, so attempting to generalize the various systems into general levels may not be suitable for all systems.

Protection of the user must be considered with automated systems as well. The [Self-driving car liability](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-driving_car_liability) article discussed various methods manufacturers may attempt to subtly divert liability to the user. One way they discussed manufacturers may attempt to do this is by giving control up to the user immediately before an accident occurs. By doing this, the manufacturer can attempt to argue that the user had control of the system at the time of the crash, but they did not have enough time to react and avoid the accident. A law that could protect users from this situation could be to either require explicit information on when a user must take control of a vehicle as well as contain a window of time that the user has control before an accident may occur, so the user has ample time to avoid the accident.

This would protect users from manufacturers in the above scenario, but systems can be unpredictable at times, so trying to regulate at what time a system should decide to give up control to the user can be tricky and create a new slew of loop holes and issues. It also makes the automation task more complicated because the system must decide when to give control to the user with enough time for the user to react. This also means that we must define how much time a user would need in order to react to the situation to avoid the accident.

Attempting to write regulations for autonomous systems is a complex issue because they are complex systems. There are many different edge cases and scenarios to consider when creating new rules and regulations, like the autonomy level and the tasks of the autonomous system, which greatly increase the difficulty in successfully writing laws that protect both the manufacturers and users of the systems.